.TH dtm_set_title 3DTM "17 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.SH "NAME"
\fBdtm_set_title, dtm_get_title\fP - Set and retrieve a message title.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB#include <dtm.h>\fP
.LP
\fBdtm_set_title(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBdtm_get_title(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP, int \fItitle_length\fP)\fP
.LP
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBdtm_set_title\fP inserts the DTM title tag \fBTTL\fP followed by the
null-terminated
character string \fItitle\fP into the character string 
\fIheader\fP.  The title is surrounded by single
quotation marks so that it's contents will not affect the interpretation of 
the rest of the header.
.LP
\fBdtm_get_title\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP and extracts
up to \fItitle_length\fP characters of the delimited title contained within.  
Memory for the character string \fItitle\fP must be allocated 
by the user before attempting to extract the title from the header.
If 
the value of \fItitle_length\fP is less than the number of characters actually
delimited as the title in the header, the title string is truncated.  Nothing,
save the null character '\\0', is stored in \fItitle\fP if no delimited title
string exists in the header.
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBdtm_get_title\fP returns the error \fBDTMERROR\fP if the DTM title tag 
\fBTTL\fP is not contained
within the header, or if following the tag there is no delimited title string.
Otherwise, \fIdtm_get_title\fP returns a 0 value.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
\fBdtm_set_title\fP has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the DTM title tag and the title string itself.  The results of
attempting to store this information beyond the end of the allocated space
are undefined.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBDTM\fP
