.ta 0.5 1
.TH dtm_set_char 3DTM "30 August 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.SH "NAME"
\fBdtm_set_char, dtm_get_char\fP - Low level string insertion and retrieval functions.
.LP
\fBdtm_set_float, dtm_get_float\fP - Low level floating point insertion and retrieval functions.
.LP
\fBdtm_set_int, dtm_get_int\fP - Low level integer insertion and retrieval functions.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <dtm.h>
.LP
\fBvoid dtm_set_char(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItag\fP, char *\fIstring\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint dtm_get_char(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItag\fP, char *\fIstring\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBvoid dtm_set_float(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItag\fP, float \fIfval\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint dtm_get_float(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItag\fP, float *\fIfval\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBvoid dtm_set_int(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItag\fP, int \fIival\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint dtm_get_int(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItag\fP, int *\fIival\fP)\fP
.LP
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
These functions all append a \fItag\fP value and a particular type of data 
to the end of the character string \fIheader\fP.  The \fItag\fP 
value must be a null-terminated character string.  In general, this function 
is reused by subclasses to ensure a particular subclass's uniqueness.
Therefore, the \fItag\fP value should be considered private data that is 
unique to that particular class.
.LP
\fBdtm_set_char \fP appends the string \fIstring\fP onto the end of the
character string \fIheader\fP imediately following the \fItag\fP.  The 
\fIstring\fP value must be a null-terminated character string.  The value
of \fIstring\fP is surrounded by the delimiter "'" to ensure that the
string does not cause conflicts with other information already present
in the header.
.LP
\fBdtm_set_float \fP appends the string representation of the floating 
point value \fIfval\fP onto the end of the character string \fIheader\fP
imediately following the \fItag\fP.  
.LP
\fBdtm_set_int \fP appends the string representation of the integer value
\fIival\fP onto the end of the character string \fIheader\fP, imediately
following the \fItag\fP.
.LP
\fBdtm_get_char\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP for the
string \fItag\fP.  If the \fItag\fP is present, the string following
the tag is placed in the previously allocated character string \fIstring\fP.
If the \fItag\fP value is absent from the header or if no strings exist
following the \fItag\fP, \fBdtm_get_char\fP returns the value \fBDTMERROR\fP.
.LP
\fBdtm_get_int\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP for the
string \fItag\fP.  If the \fItag\fP is present, the string following
the tag is converted to an integer and is returned in \fIival\fP.  If the 
\fItag\fP value is absent from the \fIheader\fP or if no integers exist
following the \fItag\fP, \fBdtm_get_int\fP returns the value \fBDTMERROR\fP.
.LP
\fBdtm_get_float\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP for the
string \fItag\fP.  If the \fItag\fP is present, the string following
the tag is converted to a floating point value and is returned in the
argument \fIfval\fP.  If the \fItag\fP value is absent from the \fIheader\fP
or if no strings exist following the \fItag\fP, \fBdtm_get_char\fP returns
the value \fBDTMERROR\fP.
.LP
For examples of how these macros are used in the creation of new subclasses,
examine the header files of the classes supplied, e.g. \fIsds.h\fP.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.LP
The functions that get values from the header return the value \fBDTMERROR\fP
is the specified tag to find is non-existant, or if there are no values
of the desired type following the tag.
.SH "BUGS"
The functions that set values in the header have no way of determining if
the header contains sufficient space to hold the tag and the supplied value.
The results of attempting to store this information beyond the end of the 
allocated space are undefined.
