.TH DTMbeginRead 3DTM "31 March 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.ta .5i 2.0i
.SH "NAME"
\fBDTMbeginRead, DTMbeginWrite\fP - Read/write a header from/to the specified port.
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fB#include <dtm.h>\fP
.LP
\fBint DTMbeginRead(int \fIportid\fP, char *\fIheader\fP, int \fIsize\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint DTMbeginWrite(int \fIportid\fP, char *\fIheader\fP, int \fIsize\fP)\fP
.fi
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBDTMbeginRead\fP receives a message from the input port specified by 
\fIportid\fP, and places that message's contents into the buffer \fIheader\fP.
\fISize\fP indicates the size of the buffer allocated to hold the incoming
header.  Though the header may be allocated to any size, \fBDTM_MAX_HEADER\fP,
as declared in \fIdtm.h\fP, is defined to be the largest legal header length.
.LP
If no message is currently available, \fBDTMbeginRead\fP will block until a 
message is ready to be received.  A non-blocking check for a pending message 
may be performed with \fBDTMavailRead\fP.
.LP
\fBDTMbeginWrite\fP writes the character string \fIheader\fP of size \fIsize\fP
to the output port \fIportid\fP.  If the size of the header to be written is 
unavailable, it may be calculated using \fBDTMheaderLength\fP.
.LP
If the message cannot be sent the moment \fBDTMbeginWrite\fP is called, the 
call will block.  A non-blocking check to determine if writing is possible is 
available with \fBDTMavailWrite\fP.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBDTM\fP, \fBDTMavailRead\fP, \fBDTMavailWrite\fP
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Both functions return the status of their operation.  If the error 
\fBDTMERROR\fP is returned, the error flag \fBDTMerrno\fP may be set to any 
one of the following values:
.LP
.nf
	\fBDTMPORTINIT\fP	Invalid value for portid.
	\fBDTMSOCK\fP		Problem creating connection.
	\fBDTMREAD\fP		Problem reading from connection.
	\fBDTMHEADER\fP	Incoming header exceeds buffer size.
	\fBDTMWRITE\fP	Error writing header.
	\fBDTMTIMEOUT\fP	Time-out waiting for receiver.
.LP
