.TH DTMgetAddress 3DTM "7 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
.B DTMgetAddress, DTMsetAddress
- Retrieve and set the supplied address in the header.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.LP
.B #include <dtm.h>
.LP
.B DTMsetAddress(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fIaddress\fP)
.LP
.B DTMgetAddress(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fIaddress\fP, int \fIsize\fP)
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B DTMsetAddress
inserts the 
.B DTM
address tag followed by the null-terminated 
character string 
.I address
into the header
.I header.
Use 
.B DTMgetPortAddr()
to retrieve the actual port address character string for insertion. 
.LP
.B DTMgetAddress
examines the header
.I header
and determines the address string 
.I address
that is
contained.  Memory for the address string must be allocated by the user before
attempting to extract the address from the header.
If there is insufficient
memory allocated to store the entire address as contained in the header,
the address string is truncated.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, DTMgetPortAddr
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B DTMgetAddress
returns the error 
.B DTMERROR
if the
.B DTM
address tag is not contained
within the header, or if no address string follows the tag.
Otherwise, 
.B DTMgetAddress
returns a 0 value.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B DTMsetAddress
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the
.B DTM
address tag and the address string.  The results 
of attempting to store this information beyond the end of the allocated space
are undefined.
.LP
The address string may contain any characters.  It is the caller's
responsibility to ensure that the address string contains useful information
instead of garbage.
