.TH DTMmakeInPort 3DTM "31 March 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.ta .5i 2.5i
.SH "NAME"
\fBDTMmakeInPort, DTMmakeOutPort\fP - Reserve a port for reception/transmission of data.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
\fB#include <dtm.h>\fP
.LP
\fBint DTMmakeInPort(char *\fIportname\fP , int \fIqservice\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint DTMmakeOutPort(char *\fIportname\fP, int \fIqservice\fP)\fP
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBDTMmakeInPort\fP creates an input port.  \fIPortname\fP is a pointer to a 
string with the format 'hostname:port'.  'Hostname' is optional and will 
always be understood to be the local host's name in it's abscence.  
\fIPortname\fP represent the address where the system will listen for incoming
messages.  If \fIportname\fP is ':0' then the system will assign the TCP port 
number.  The value can be retrieved with \fBDTMgetPortAddr\fP.
.LP
If \fBDTMmakeInPort\fP suceeds, it returns a portid.  The portid is an integer
useful for referring to the port in all subsequent DTM calls.  If there is any
errors \fBDTMmakeInPort\fP will return \fBDTMERROR\fP.
.LP
\fBDTMmakeOutPort\fP creates an output port.  \fIPortname\fP is pointer to a 
string with the format 'hostname:port' representing the address to which 
outgoing messages will be sent.  Therefore, 'hostname' is any legal host name 
or IP address, though in it's abscence it will always be understood to be the 
local host.  'Port' is the TCP port number to which data must be sent.
.LP
If \fBDTMmakeOutPort\fP suceeds, it returns a portid.  The portid is an integer
used to refer to the port in all subsequent DTM calls.  If there are any errors
\fBDTMmakeOutPort\fP will return \fBDTMERROR\fP.
.LP
In both cases, the argument \fIqservice\fP describes the quality of service to
used.  The types of service available are: \fBDTM_SYNC\fP, \fBDTM_ASYNC\fP,
\fBDTM_DEFAULT\fP.  They each have the following behavior:
.LP
.nf
	\fBDTM_SYNC\fP:	Causes all communications to rely on a simple 
		handshake in order to reduce the possibility of deadlock.
	\fBDTM_ASYNC\fP:	Causes all communications to ignore any 
		requests for handshaking.  This has the possible effect of 
		speeding communications, though the danger of deadlocking 
		processes needing that port is increased.
	\fBDTM_DEFAULT\fP:	Sets the value to \fBDTM_SYNC\fP until this is
		further defined.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBDTM\fP
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
When the value \fBDTMERROR\fP is returned, \fBDTMerrno\fP may be set to these 
possible errors:
.LP
	\fBDTMNOPORT\fP	No more open DTM ports.
	\fBDTMMEM\fP	Insufficient memory for port.
	\fBDTMHUH\fP	Illegal port name.

