.TH DTMreadDataset 3DTM "31 March 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.ta .5i 2.5i
.SH "NAME"
\fBDTMreadDataset, DTMwriteDataset\fP - Read/Write data from/via the specified port.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB#include <dtm.h>\fP
.LP
\fBint DTMreadDataset(int \fIportid\fP, char *\fIbuffer\fP, int \fInum_elements\fP, DTMTYPE \fItype\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint DTMwriteDataset(int \fIportid\fP, void *\fIbuffer\fP, int \fInum_elements\fP, DTMTYPE \fItype\fP)\fP
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBDTMreadDataset\fP reads the data of a message from the input port 
\fIportid\fP.  This call is optional, but if it is used it must be preceeded 
by a call to \fBDTMbeginRead\fP.  \fBDTMreadDataset\fP will attempt to fill 
the \fIbuffer\fP with \fInum_elements\fP elements of the specified \fItype\fP,
with automatic type conversion performed when necessary.  \fIBuffer\fP is
assumed to be large enough to hold the amount of data requested.
.LP
In the absence of errors, \fBDTMreadDataset\fP returns the number of elements 
actually read.  \fBDTMreadDataset\fP may be called as often as required to 
receive a message in its entirety.  When no further data can be read at
the end of the message, the value returned by \fBDTMreadDataset\fP will equal 0.
.LP
\fBDTMwriteDataset\fP writes the data of a message to the output port 
\fIportid\fP.  This call is optional, but if it is used it must be preceeded 
by a call to \fBDTMbeginWrite\fP.  \fBDTMwriteDataset\fP will write
\fInum_elements\fP elements of the specified type from the \fIbuffer\fP, and
automatic type conversion to the specified \fItype\fP will be performed where 
necessary.  \fBDTMwriteDataset\fP may be called any number of times between 
the \fBDTMbeginWrite\fP/\fBDTMendWrite\fP pair - there is no limit to
the amount of data that can be sent at any one time.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBDTM\fP
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
Possible values of \fBDTMerrno\fP upon return of an error:
.LP
.nf
	\fBDTMCALL\fP	\fBDTMbeginRead\fP (\fBDTMbeginWrite\fP) must preceed this call.
	\fBDTMREAD\fP	Error reading message.
