.TH PALclass 3DTM "2 April 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBPALclass\fP - A message class for handling palettes.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB#include <ris.h>\fP
.LP
\fBPALheaderLength(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALHL(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALsetClass(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALcompareClass(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALsetSize(char *\fIheader\fP, int \fInum_elements\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALgetSize(char *\fIheader\fP, int *\fInum_elements\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALsetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBPALgetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP, int \fItitle_length\fP)\fP
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This message class is to be used for sending pallette (color table) information
via DTM.  Palettes in this message class are represented by three one-byte
(unsigned character) triples where the first byte represents the intensity of
the red color; the second, the intensity of the green; and the third, the
intensity of the blue.  The entries in the palette are assumed to be in
contiguous order, that is, the numbering of each triple is implicit: the
first triple received is the first color table value (Fig. 1).

           Implicit Order        Index  Color Table
           --------------        ----- +---+---+---+
           First palette value->     0 |  0|  0|  0|
           Second value-------->     1 | 16|  0|  0|
                                     2 | 32|  0|  0|
                                            ...
           Last value---------->     N |  0|  0|255|
                                       +---+---+---+

                       (Fig. 1)

The macros and functions that are associated with this class include:
.LP
.nf
\fBPALheaderLength\fP:
.fi
\fBPALHL\fP:
These two macros are equivalent.  They both return the exact length of the 
supplied character string \fIheader,\fP counting the null character at the end.
.LP
\fBPALsetClass\fP: inserts the message class constant \fBPALclass\fP into the 
character string \fIheader\fP indicating that the data to follow should be 
interpreted as a palette.  The \fBPALclass\fP constant is declared in the file 
\fIris.h\fP, and though it is accessible at all times, it is recommended that
the macro \fBPALsetClass\fP be used to correctly insert this message type tag
into the header.
.LP
\fBPALcompareClass\fP: returns a non-zero value if the character string
\fIheader\fP contains the \fBPALclass\fP constant.  Though the constant 
\fBPALclass\fP is accessible at all times, users should use the macro 
\fBPALcompareClass\fP to determine whether or not a header indicates palette 
data.
.LP
\fBPALsetSize\fP inserts into the character string \fIheader\fP the tag 
\fBPALentries\fP followed by the value \fInum_elements\fP that is supposed to
indicate the number of color triples available in the palette.  It is up to 
the user to ensure that the exact number of entries specified are actually
contained within the data portion of the message.
.LP
\fBPALgetSize\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP and sets the
integer \fInum_elements\fP to be the size of the palette contained in the 
dataset that is supposed to follow the receipt of the header.  If no size is 
found within the header, and since palettes are typically comprised of 256
elements, the value \fInum_elements\fP is assigned the value 256.  It is the 
user's responsibility to ensure that the value returned by \fInum_elements\fP
exactly matches the number of elements that are actually contained in the data.
.LP
\fBPALsetTitle\fP inserts the \fBDTM\fP title tag followed by the 
null-terminated character string \fItitle\fP into the string \fIheader\fP.
The title is delimited by single quotation marks so that it's contents will 
not affect the interpretation of the header.
.LP
\fBPALgetTitle\fP examines the string \fIheader\fP and determines the title 
string that it contains.  Memory for the character string \fItitle\fP
must be allocated by the user before attempting to extract the title from the
header.  If there is insufficient memory allocated to store the entire title 
as contained in the header, the title string is truncated.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fBDTM\fP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBPALgetSize\fP returns the error \fBDTMERROR\fP if the header does not 
contain the tag \fBPALentries\fP or if no value follows the \fBPALentries\fP
tag.  In either case, the value of \fInum_elements \fP still defaults to 256.
.LP
\fBPALgetTitle\fP returns the error \fBDTMERROR\fP if the \fBDTM\fP title tag
is not contained within the header, or if following the tag there is no 
delimited title string.  Otherwise, \fBPALgetTitle\fP returns the value
\fBDTM_OK\fP (\fBDTMNOERROR\fP).
.SH "BUGS"
With this class, support for sending portions of palettes with their positions
in the new color map explicitly defined does not exist.  This problem is due to
the fact that the ordering of the colors is implicit in the data.
.LP
X likes to have it's color triples specified in the range 0-65535 per electron
gun (color value) even though it is much more common to have a range of 
0-255.  Therefore, it's the user's responsibility to massage the data into
the correct format needed for whatever is required by the correct visual type.
.LP
\fBPALsetClass\fP, \fBPALsetSize\fP, \fBPALsetTitle\fP, each have no way of
determining if the character string \fIheader\fP contains sufficient space to
hold all of the necessary tags and other information.  The results of 
attempting to store this information beyond the end of the allocated space
are undefined.
