.TH PALelements 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBPALsetSize, PALgetSize\P - Set and determine the number of colors in a palette.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ris.h>
.LP
.B PALsetSize(char *\fIheader\fP, int \fInum_elements\fP)
.LP
.B PALgetSize(char *\fIheader\fP, int *\fInum_elements\fP)
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B PALsetSize
and 
.B PALgetSize
are macros that operate on a given DTM header.
.LP
.B PALsetSize
inserts into the string
.I header 
the tag 
.B PALentries
followed by the number 
of elements as supplied by
.I num_elements
that are supposed to be available in the palette.  It is up to 
the user to ensure that the exact number of entries specified are actually
contained within the data portion of the message.
.LP
.B PALgetSize
examines the header and returns the number declared to be the
size of the palette contained in the dataset that is supposed to follow the
header.  If no size was found within the header, and since palettes are 
typically comprised of 256 elements, the value 
.I num_elements
is assigned defaults to the value 256.
It is the user's responsibility to ensure that the value returned by 
.I num_elements
is exactly matches the 
number of elements that are actually contained in the dataset since 
.B PALgetSize 
has no way of reviewing and interpreting the data.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, PALclass
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B PALgetSize
returns the error 
.B DTMERROR
if the header does not contain the
tag 
.B PALentries
or if no value follows the 
.B PALentries
tag.  In either case,
the value of 
.I num_elements 
still defaults to 256.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B PALsetSize
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the tag 
.B PALentries
and the number of elements specified.
The results of attempting to store information beyond the end of the 
allocated space are undefined.
