.TH RISclass 3DTM "26 November 1992" DTM-2.3 "DTM Version 2.3"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBRISclass\fP - Raster Image Set DTM message class.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB#include <ris.h>\fP
.LP
\fBRISheaderLength(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRISHL(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRISsetClass(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRIScompareClass(char *\fIheader\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBvoid RISsetDimensions(char *\fIheader\fP, int \fIxdim\fP, int \fIydim\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint RISgetDimensions(char *\fIheader\fP, int *\fIxdim\fP, int *\fIydim\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRISsetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRISgetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP, int \fItitle_length\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRISsetType(char *\fIheader\fP, RISTYPE \fIraster_type\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBRISgetType(char *\fIheader\fP, RISTYPE *\fIraster_type\fP)\fP
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
The RIS message class is a DTM class designed specifically for the transmission
of raster images.  Each of the macros and functions listed above places
information that describes the qualities of the raster image into the header.
Several constants have been defined to be used as tags that identify particular
properties of this class.  While these constants are available for use at any
time following the inclusion of \fIris.h\fP, it is highly recommended that
programmers use the functions and macros listed above to correctly manipulate
the headers for this class.  The tags include:
.LP
\fBRISclass\fP - The tag that identifies the message as belonging to the
raster image class of messages.
.LP
\fBRISsize\fP - A constant for declaring raster image header sizes.  Though
the size of the header can be arbitrary, it's doubtful that the header length
will exceed this value.
.LP
\fBRISdims\fP - The pair of integers in the header following this flag
indicates the expected dimensions of the image in pixels.
.LP
\fBPALtype\fP - The tag that identifies the subsequent value as being the type
of image being sent: either RIS8BIT or RIS24BIT.  RIS24BIT assumes that each
pixel is composed of three, closely packed, eight-bit number representing
the red, green, and blue color components of the color.  I.e. RGBRGBRGB...
where each or R, G, and B is a value between 0 and 255.  Twenty-four bit
images are considered "direct color" images because there is no need for a
palette.  On the other hand, the type RIS8BIT assumes that each byte of data
is one of 256 possible entries into some non- specified colormap.  RIS
functions make no assumptions about the existance of colormaps so it is up
to the user to supply a colormap if one is needed.  See PALclass for more
information on palettes.
.LP
Certain graphics libraries, require raster image data to be in a format
different from what is described above.  If a different format is required,
then it is the user's responsibility to pack/unpack the data into the format
desired.
.LP
It is also important to be aware that the RISclass is theoretically a
sub-class of the scientific data set class of messages (SDS).  The RISclass
of messages has been provided to distinguish raster images from other form of
scientific data, though that distinction is not necessary.
.LP
The RISclass contains the following supported functions and macros:
.PP
.nf
\fBRISheaderLength:\fP
.fi
\fBRISHL:\fP
Macros for determining a view control header length.  These two macros are
equivalent.  They both return the exact length of the supplied character
string \fIheader\fP, counting the null character at the end.
.LP
\fBRISsetClass:\fP inserts the message class constant \fBRISclass\fP
into the character string \fIheader\fP indicating that the data to follow
should be considered some form of a raster image.  The \fBRISclass\fP
constant is declared in the file \fIris.h\fP, and though it is accessible
at all times, it is recommended that the macro \fBRISsetClass\fP be used
to correctly insert this message type tag into the header.
.LP
\fBRIScompareClass:\fP returns a non-zero value if the character string
\fIheader\fP contains the \fBRISclass\fP constant.  Though the constant 
\fBRISclass\fP is accessible at all times, it is recommended that the macro 
\fBRIScompareClass\fP to determine whether or not a header indicates raster
image data.
.LP
\fBRISsetDimensions:\fP inserts into the string \fIheader\fP the \fBRISdims\fP
flag followed by the two dimensions \fIxdim\fP and \fIydim\fP of the raster
image.  It is the user's responsibility to ensure that the dimensions
specified here match the actual dimensions of the data.
.LP
\fBRISgetDimensions:\fP examines the string \fIheader\fP and returns the
specified dimensions, \fIxdim\fP and \fIydim\fP, of the raster image.  There
is no guarantee that the dimensions read from the header will match the
dimensionality of the data received since \fBRISgetDimensions\fP has no
way of reviewing and interpreting the data.
.LP
\fBRISsetTitle\fP inserts the DTM title tag followed by the null-
terminated character string \fItitle\fP into the header.  The title is
surrounded by single quotation marks so that it's contents will not affect
the interpretation of the header.
.LP
\fBRISgetTitle\fP examines the string \fIheader\fP and determines the title
string that it contains.  Memory for the \fItitle\fP string must be allocated
by the user before attempting to extract the title from the header.  If there
is insufficient memory allocated to store the entire title as contained in the 
header, the title string is truncated.
.LP
\fBRISsetType:\fP inserts into the string \fIheader\fP the tag \fBRIStype\fP
immediately followed by a tag identifying the \fIraster_type\fP of the image.
The tag type should be either \fBRIS8BIT\fP or \fBRIS24BIT\fP.  It the user's
responsibility to ensure that the data type specified matches the data sent.  
\fBRISsetType\fP also inserts the DTM type tag followed by the tag for the
type \fBDTM_CHAR\fP.  This is set to ensure that each RISclass message can
still be considered a full-blown \fBSDSclass\fP with the data type
\fBDTM_CHAR\fP.
.LP
\fBRISgetType\fP examines the string \fIheader\fP, and if the \fBRIStype\fP
tag is found, sets the argument \fIraster_type\fP to be the next value.
The two defined values that can be returned are \fBRIS8BIT\fP and
\fBRIS24BIT\fP.  If the \fBRIStype\fP tag was not found within the header, the 
\fIraster_type\fP argument receives a default value of \fBRIS24BIT\fP.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIThe DTM Programming Manual\fP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBRISgetDimensions, RISgetTitle, and RISgetType\fP all return a value of
0 upon successful parsing of the header.  If the tag that each is searching
for is not present in the header, the functions return the error value
\fBDTMERROR\fP.  In general, no values are assigned to any of the
arguments with the exception of the \fBRISgetType\fP's argument
\fIraster_type\fP: in this case the default value of \fBRIS24BIT\fP is
returned.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
None of the \fBRISset*\fP functions and macros have any way of determining
if the header contains sufficient space to hold the data-specific tag and
the associated data.  The results of attempting to store this information
beyond the end of the allocated space are undefined.
.LP
\fBRISgetDimensions\fP assumes that two dimensions follow the \fBRISdims\fP
flag.  If less than two integers follow the tag, the results are undefined.
