.TH RISsetDimensions 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBRISsetDimensions, RISgetDimensions\fP - Functions dealing with raster image dimensions
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ris.h>
.LP
\fBvoid RISsetDimensions(char *\fIheader\fP, int \fIxdim\fP, int \fIydim\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint RISgetDimensions(char *\fIheader\fP, int *\fIxdim\fP, int *\fIydim\fP)\fP
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B RISsetDimensions
inserts into the string
.I header 
the 
.B RISdims
flag followed by the two dimensions
.I xdim
and
.I ydim
of the raster image.  It is the user's responsibility to ensure
that the dimensions specified here match the actual dimensions of the data.
.LP
.B RISgetDimensions
examines the string
.I header
and returns the specified dimensions,
.I xdim
and
.I ydim,
of the raster image.  There is no guarantee that the dimensions read from
the header will match the dimensionality of the data received since 
.B RISgetDimensions
has no way of reviewing and interpreting the data.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, RISclass
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B RISgetDimensions
returns a value of 0 upon successful parsing of the header.  If the tag 
.B RISdims
is not found within the header, the function returns the error 
.B DTMERROR
and no values are assigned to the dimensions.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B RISsetDimensions
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient space to hold the tag 
.B RISdims 
and the number of dimensions specified.  The results of this operation is 
undefined.
.LP
.B RISgetDimensions 
assumes that two dimensions follow the 
.B RISdims
flag.  If less than two follow the tag, the results are undefined.
