.TH RISsetType 3DTM "29 November 1993" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBRISsetType, RISgetType\fP - Raster image typing macros.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <ris.h>
.LP
.B RISsetType(char *\fIheader\fP, RISTYPE \fIraster_type\fP)
.LP
.B RISgetType(char *\fIheader\fP, RISTYPE *\fIraster_type\fP)
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B RISsetType
inserts into the string
.I header
the tag 
.B RIStype
immediately followed by
a tag identifying the 
.I raster_type
of the image.  The tag type should be either
.B RIS8BIT
or 
.B RIS24BIT.
See 
.B RISclass
for more information about these two types.
It is up to the user to ensure that the data type specified matches the
data sent.  
.B RISsetType
also inserts the DTM type tag followed by the tag
for the type 
.B DTM_CHAR.
This is set to ensure that each RISclass message can still be considered a 
full-blown 
.B SDSclass
with the data type 
.B DTM_CHAR.
.LP
.B RISgetType
examines the string
.I header,
and if the 
.B RIStype
tag if found, sets the argument 
.I raster_type 
to be the following value.  The two defined values that can be returned are 
.B RIS8BIT
and 
.B RIS24BIT.
See 
.B RISclass
for more 
information about these two types.  If the
.B RIStype
tag was not found within
the header, the 
.I raster_type 
argument receives a default value of 
.B RIS8BIT.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, RISclass
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B RISgetType
returns the error 
.B DTMERROR
if the header does not contain the tag
.B RIStype
or if no value follows the 
.B RIStype
tag.  In either case, the value of 
.I raster_type 
still defaults to 
.B RIS8BIT.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B RISsetType
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the tag 
.B RIStype,
the raster_type value, the DTM type tag, and the 
.B DTM_CHAR 
tag.  The results of attempting to store this information beyond
the end of the allocated space are undefined.
