.TH SDLsetBoundingBox 3DTM "30 March 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBSDLgetBoundingBox, SDLsetBoundingBox\fP - functions for adding bounding box information to surface description files.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
\fB#include <sdl.h>\fP
.LP
\fBvoid SDLsetBoundingBox(char *\fIheader\fP, float \fImin\fB[3], float\fP \fImax\fB[3])\fP
.LP
\fBint SDSgetBoundingBox(char *\fIheader\fP, float \fImin\fB[3], float\fP \fImax\fB[3])\fP
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBSDLsetBoundingBox\fP is used to provide information about the minimum and maximum 
coordinate extents of the data. The vector \fImin\fP should contain the minimum
x, y, and z values of every point in the data set.  The vector \fImax\fP should 
contain the maximum x, y, and z values of every point in the data set.  In
this manner, the minimum and maximum vertices form opposing corners of a cube
that completely encloses all of the data.  In otherwords, the minimum and
maximum x values (the first value in the vectors) form the left and right
sides of the cube enclosing the data set respectively.  The minimum and
maximum y values (the second value in the vectors) form the bottom and top
sides of the cube.  And, the minimum and maximum z (third) values form the 
near and far sides of the bounding cube.  Remember, it is the caller's
responsibility to ensure that the values set by \fBSDLsetBoundingBox\fP
actually match the minimum and maximum values in the dataset.
.LP
\fBSDLgetBoundingBox\fP is used to retrieve information about the minimum and maximum 
coordinate extents of the data from the header.  Upon successful completion
of this funciton, the vector \fImin\fP will contain the values that should 
represent the minimum x, y, and z values of every point in the data set, and
the vector \fImax\fP will contain the values that should represent the maximum 
x, y, and z values of every point in the data set.  Thus, the minimum and 
maximum vertices form opposing corners of a cube that should completely enclose
all of the data.  It is impossible to ensure that the values returned by
\fBSDLgetBoundingBox\fP match the actual minimum and maximum extents in
the data; it is the user's responsibility to guarantee that the extents, when
set, are correct, or to check the extents against the data received.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, SDSsetMinMax
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
SDLgetBoundingBox returns a value of zero if the header lacks the six values
that correspond to the two opposing corners of the bounding cube or if
the \fBSDLbounds\fP flag is not located within the header (indicating that no
bounding box information was specified when the header was created).
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
\fBSDLsetBoundingBox\fP has no way of determining if the header contains
sufficient space to hold the tag \fB SDLbounds\fP and the six floating point
values representing the minimum and maximum coordinate extents.  The results 
of attempting to store this information beyond the end of the allocated space 
are undefined.
