.TH SDSsetMinMax 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBSDSsetMinMax, SDSgetMinMax\fP - Scientific data set functions for setting ranges of values.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sds.h>
.LP
\fBvoid SDSsetMinMax(char *\fIheader\fP, float \fImin\fP, float \fImax\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint SDSgetMinMax(char *\fIheader\fP, float *\fImin\fP, float *\fImax\fP)\fP
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B SDSsetMinMax
inserts into the character string
header the 
.B SDSminmax
flag followed by the 
\fImin\fPimum and \fImax\fPimum values of the dataset as specified by the 
user.  It is the user's responsibility to ensure that these values do indeed 
match the minimum and maximum values in the data set.
.LP
.B SDSgetMinMax
examines the character string
.I header
and returns the \fImin\fPimum and \fImax\fPimum values 
of the data set.  There is no guarantee that these values read from the header
will match either the minimum or the maximum of the data received since 
.B SDSgetMinMax
has no way of reviewing and interpreting the data.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, SDSclass
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B SDSgetMinMax
returns a value of 0 upon successful parsing of the header.
If the tag 
.B SDSminmax
is not found within the header, the function returns
the error 
.B DTMERROR
and no minimum or maximum values are assigned.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B SDSsetMinMax
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the tag 
.B SDSminmax
and both specified values.  The results of 
attempting to store this information beyond the end of the allocated space 
are undefined.
.LP
.B SDSgetMinMax
assumes that two values follow the 
.B SDSminmax
flag.  If less than
two follow the tag, the results are undefined, thus it is important to use
.B SDSsetMinMax
to ensure that both values are inserted when creating the header.
