.TH SDSsetDimensions 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM "DTM Versions 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBSDSsetDimensions, SDSgetDimensions\fP - Scientific data set functions for dealing with data set dimensions.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sds.h>
.LP
\fBvoid SDSsetDimensions(char *\fIheader\fP, int \fIrank\fP, int *\fIdims\fP)\fP
.LP
\fBint SDSgetDimensions(char *\fIheader\fP, int *\fIrank\fP, int *\fIdims\fP, int \fIlen\fP)\fP
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B SDSsetDimensions
inserts into the character string
.I header
the 
.B SDSdims
flag followed by the 
.I rank
and all of the dimensions 
.I dims
of the data set.  It is the user's responsibility to ensure that the 
dimensions specified here match the actual dimensions of the data.
.LP
.B SDSgetDimensions
examines the character string
.I header
and returns the specified 
.I rank
and dimensions
.I dims
of the data set.  There is no guarantee that the dimensions read from
the header will match the dimensionality of the data received since 
.B SDSgetDimensions
has no way of reviewing and interpreting the data.
.B SDSgetDimensions
will save a maximum of 
.I len
dimensions, and it is the user's responsibility to ensure that the dims array 
can hold 
.I len
values.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, SDSclass, SDSgetRank
.LP
.Sh "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B SDSgetDimensions
returns a value of 0 upon successful parsing of the header.
If the tag 
.B SDSdims
is not found within the header, the function returns
the error 
.B DTMERROR 
and no values are assigned to the dimensions.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B SDSsetDimensions
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient space to hold 
the tag 
.B SDSdims,
the rank, and all of the dimensions specified.
The results of attempting to store this information beyond the end of the 
allocated space are undefined.
.LP
.B SDSgetDimensions
assumes that the rank follows the 
.B SDSdims
tag.  If the rank
is not present, the results are undefined, thus the importance of using
.B SDSsetDimensions
when creating the header.
