.TH SDSsetType 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBSDSsetType, SDSgetType\fP - Scientific data set typing macros.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sds.h>
.LP
.B SDSsetType(char *\fIheader\fP, DTMTYPE \fIdata_type\fP)
.LP
.B SDSgetType(char *\fIheader\fP, DTMTYPE *\fIdata_type\fP)
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B SDSsetType
inserts into the character string
.I header
the 
.B DTM
type tag immediately followed by
a tag identifying the 
.I data_type
of the image.  The tag type can be one of 
.B DTM_CHAR, DTM_SHORT, DTM_INT, DTM_FLOAT, DTM_DOUBLE, DTM_COMPLEX,
or
.B DTM_TRIPLET.
See 
.B DTMclass
for more information about these types.  It is up to the user to ensure that
the data type specified matches the data sent.
.LP
.B SDSgetType
examines the character string
.I header,
and if the 
.B DTM 
type tag if found, sets the
argument 
.I data_type
to be the following value.  The defined values 
that can be returned are 
.B DTM_CHAR, DTM_SHORT, DTM_INT, DTM_FLOAT, DTM_DOUBLE,
.B DTM_COMPLEX,
and
.B DTM_TRIPLET.
See 
.B DTMclass
for more information about these 
types.  If the 
.B DTM
type tag was not found within the header, the 
.I data_type
argument receives a default value of 
.B DTM_FLOAT.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, SDSclass
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B SDSgetType
returns the error 
.B DTMERROR
if the header does not contain the 
.B DTM
type tag or if no value follows the tag.  In either case, the value of 
.I data_type 
still defaults to 
.B DTM_FLOAT.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B SDSsetType 
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the 
.B DTM
type tag and the data_type value.  The results of
attempting to store this information beyond the end of the allocated space
are undefined.
