.TH VCTRLsetTitle 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM "DTM Version 2.0"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBVCTRLsetTitle, VCTRLgetTitle\fP - View control matrix title manipulation macros.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sdl.h>
.LP
.B VCTRLsetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLgetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP, int \fItitle_length\fP)
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
.B VCTRLsetTitle
inserts the 
.B DTM
title tag followed by the null-terminated
character string 
.I title into the character string
.I header.
The title is surrounded by single 
quotation marks so that it's contents will not affect the interpretation of
the header.
.LP
.B VCTRLgetTitle
examines the character string
.I header
and determines the title string that is contained.  Memory for the 
.I title
string must be allocated by the user before
attempting to extract the title from the header.  If there is insufficient
memory allocated to store the entire title as contained in the header, the
title string is truncated.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
DTM, VCTRLclass
.LP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
.B VCTRLgetTitle
returns the error 
.B DTMERROR
if the 
.B DTM
title tag is not contained
within the header, or if following the tag there is no delimited title string.
Otherwise, 
.B VCTRLgetTitle
returns a 0 value.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
.B VCTRLsetTitle
has no way of determining if the header contains sufficient
space to hold the 
.B DTM
title tag and the title string itself.  The results of attempting to store 
this information beyond the end of the allocated space are undefined.
