.TH VCTRLclass 3DTM "10 February 1992" DTM-2.3 "DTM Version 2.3"
.LP
.SH "NAME"
\fBVCTRLclass\fP - A view control message class.
.LP
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
.nf
.B #include <sdl.h>
.LP
.B VCTRLheaderLength(char *\fIheader\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLHL(char *\fIheader\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLsetClass(char *\fIheader\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLcompareClass(char *\fIheader\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLsetGTM(char *\fIheader\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLgetGTM(char *\fIheader\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLsetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP)
.LP
.B VCTRLgetTitle(char *\fIheader\fP, char *\fItitle\fP, int \fItitle_length\fP)
.fi
.LP
.SH "DESCRIPTION"
This message class was designed to be used as a method of communicating
view control matrices via DTM.  The view control matrices used are the
4x4 floating point matrices interpretable by SGI's GL (graphics library).
This class is fairly limited in scope and is provided without any guarantees
of further development or support.
.LP
The macros and functions that are included with this class include:
.LP
.nf
\fBVCTRLheaderLength:\fP
.fi
\fBVCTRLHL:\fP - Macros for determining a view control header length.
These two macros are equivalent.  They both return the exact length of
the supplied character string \fIheader\fP, counting the null character
at the end.
.LP
\fBVCTRLsetClass:\fP inserts the message class constant \fBVCTRLclass\fP
into the character string \fIheader\fP indicating that the data to follow
should be considered some form of a view control matrix.  The \fBVCTRLclass\fP
constant is declared in the file \fIsdl.h\fP, and though it is accessible 
at all times, it is recommended that the macro \fBVCTRLsetClass\fP
be used to correctly insert this message type tag into the header.
.LP
\fBVCTRLcompareClass:\fP returns a non-zero value if the character string
\fIheader\fP contains the \fBVCTRLclass\fP constant.  Though the constant 
\fBVCTRLclass\fP is accessible at all times, it is recommended that the macro 
\fBVCTRLcompareClass\fP to determine whether or not a header indicates a 
view control matrix.
.LP
\fBVCTRLsetGTM:\fP inserts into the character string \fIheader\fP the tag 
\fBVCTRLgtm\fP identifying this message as containing a global transformation
matrix.
.LP
\fBVCTRLgetGTM:\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP, and if the 
\fBVCTRLgtm\fP tag if found, returns a non-zero value.  If the \fBVCTRLgtm\fP
tag is not found, then zero is returned.
.LP
\fBVCTRLsetTitle:\fP inserts the DTM title tag followed by the null-terminated
character string \fItitle\fP into the character string \fIheader\fP.
The title is surrounded by single quotation marks so that it's contents will
not affect the interpretation of the header.
.LP
\fBVCTRLgetTitle:\fP examines the character string \fIheader\fP and determines
the title string that is contained.  Memory for the \fItitle\fP string must
be allocated by the user before attempting to extract the title from the
header.  If there is insufficient memory allocated to store the entire title
as contained in the header, the title string is truncated.
.LP
.SH "SEE ALSO"
\fIThe DTM Programming Manual\fP
.SH "DIAGNOSTICS"
\fBVCTRLgetTitle\fP returns the error \fBDTMERROR\fP if the DTM title tag
is not contained within the header, or if following the tag there is no 
delimited title string.  Otherwise, \fBVCTRLgetTitle\fP returns a 0 value.
.LP
.SH "BUGS"
None of the \fBVCTRLset*\fP functions and macros have any way of determining
if the header contains sufficient space to hold the data-specific tag and
the associated data.  The results of attempting to store this information
beyond the end of the allocated space are undefined.
